# Chapter 3: Modularity

## Advices

- ...

## Introduction

- C++ represents interfaces as declarations.
- A declaration specifies all that is needed to use a function or a type, but it does not provide the implementation.
- Header files and modules are the two main ways to separate interface from implementation in C++.
- A header file is a file that contains declarations of functions, classes, and other entities.
  It is typically included in other source files using the `#include` directive.
- A module is a unit of code that can be compiled separately and imported into other modules or source files.
  It provides a more modern and efficient way to manage dependencies and **improve compilation times**.
  Only C++20 and later support modules, while header files have been used in C++ for a long time.
  To make an entity available to other translation units, you can use the `export` keyword in a module interface unit.

## Header Files

- If two files use the same interface (i.e. header file), they *can be compiled separately* and linked together.
- Think of a program as a collection of modules with well-defined interfaces.
- The implementation file (*.cpp) doesn't require to include the header file, but it is a common practice to do so
    to ensure that the implementation matches the interface.
- A .cpp file that includes a header file is called a translation unit.
- Disadvantages of header files (C/C++):
  - If you include a header file in multiple source files, it will be compiled multiple times,
    which can lead to longer compilation times.
  - Dependencies order can be complex and lead to issues such as circular dependencies.
  - Transitive dependencies can lead to unexpected compilation errors when a header file is modified.
  - Inconsistencies between the header file and the implementation file can lead to compilation or runtime errors.
  - It can be costly and error-prone to maintain large codebases with many header files.

## Modules

- C++20 introduced modules as a way to improve the modularity and compilation times of C++ programs.
- It's a language feature that allows you to define and use modules, which are self-contained units of
  code that can be compiled separately and imported into other modules or source files.
- A module compiles just once, and its compiled interface can be reused across multiple translation units.
  For example, `import std;` works 10x faster than `#include <iostream>` despite carying the whole standard library.
- Unfortunately, `module std` is not part of C++20. It is expected to be added in C++23, but it is already available
  in some compilers (e.g. MSVC).
- Advantages of modules:
  - We don't need to separate interface and implementation files with modules.
  - Module's interface is generated by the compiler and is not visible to the programmer.
  - Order of modules is not important, and circular dependencies are not an issue.
  - `import` is not transitive, so you only need to import what you directly use.

## Things I didn't know before

- ...
